---
title: "docs, content, social things [day 29]"
layout: post
date: 2017-03-23 23:25:30 -0400
tags: [rc]
categories: daily-journal
---

Today was the last day of the winter 2 batch.  This meant there was a big goodbye party
preluded by a very nice "never graduation"-ceremony.  It was a good party.  I spoke to some people,
that I never worked with. I enjoyed finally getting to know them at least a bit.
The food was pretty good too, there was some Indian
food which was delicious.  I liked the mood of this goodbye party, because there was a lot of
reflection going on.  I think these kind of occasions allow for sharing thoughts which are not
beeing said otherwise.  Among these thoughts were positive and negative, but I think reflection
is a good thing in both cases.

Until that it was a regular day.  I continued to work on the Zulip stuff from yesterday.
My first goal, which took most of my time, was to work through and polish some
documentation that was created yesterday.  As I was new to the content that the docs were about,
I was a qualified person to answer whether this was understandable.  There were some confusing
parts, so I tried to make them a bit clearer.  Unfortunately polishing takes a lot of time,
especially for me, I do double and triple check everything.  I would like to learn how to do
it less perfect, but I'm happy with the outcome still.

A little pairing I did today was with Costa, who tried to configure a very minimal webserver,
used for development purposes, to serve files without extension still with the `text/html`
content-type. I couldn't really help, because I don't know the environment,
it was a node.js package. For Python this would be easy for me, I even think I could create
a webserver doing this fairly quickly. But how to do it without knowing the environment?
One of those challenges again. Try to pick up the big picture as good as possible and take a
decision on how things could be improved.
