---
title: "shipping up to boston [day 30]"
layout: post
date: 2017-03-24 23:08:32 -0400
tags: [rc]
categories: daily-journal
---

This weekend I'm gonna visit [LibrePlanet](https://libreplanet.org/2017/), which I'm very excited about.
It was a very spontaneous trip, but as it's not too far away from NYC, it's doable.

The bus towards Boston took around 5 hours, a bit less even. I wanted to work on the bus, but the road
was kind of band and I got tired, so I just watched some talks and other things. For example I trained
to type faster. Some different experiences at RC made me want to type faster. Getting out text is a good
skill, and typing without thinking too much is definitely a part of it. You can just braindump.

Arriving in Boston was very nice. My first impression of the city was through some
[descriptions of wikitravel](http://wikitravel.org/en/Boston) on the bus.  Some explanations
made me smile. For example:

   > While other American cities have their streets laid out in a grid [...],
   > the modern streets of Boston are a twisty and seemingly incomprehensible maze. [...]
   > In this way, Boston is more similar to old European cities.

My conclusion after walking a bit through the city: I've been missing this *Europe way*. I find grid layout cities pretty convenient for not getting lost (it's still possible!), but they're kind of uninteresting and somehow depressing.

The evening I spent at the FSF office. I'm not sure how to summarize this, but it was a nice atmosphere. Lot's of inspiring people. For dinner I headed out with Sergio to find some low budget place in Chinatown. We found some, which was actually what you would think of low budget chinese food (at least what I think). We got a lot. We spent two hours finishing the food, because it was so much.

Besides that we had a really good conversation. Sergio had some good summaries for what is going on in the world. I'll spare you the details, because I have to sleep now, but we touched everything from WW2 to the revolutionary potential of Bitcoin. The thing I enjoyed about this was, that it was beyond smalltalk, it felt real.
