---
title: "stack, interrupt, zero [day 25]"
layout: post
date: 2017-03-20 20:56:11 -0400
tags: [rc]
categories: daily-journal
---

Last Friday I was continuing the reverse engineering challenge from the day before. I could solve it this time. It was a fun challenge. One of these that are very easy to see having worked out the solution. But finding the solution takes quite some effort. Working through it systematically taught me more about gdb and also about understanding assembler and low level processes a bit more.

Apart from looking for jobs, which is not a pleasure, I did some reviewing of other Recursers' works. I reviewed a [blogpost about a two month long job search](https://haroldtreen.com/tech/recurse/job/2017/03/16/two-months-of-tech-interviews/). It was quite interesting to read. The part about the recommendations from others is a bit frustrating, as it's so unfair and biased. But of course that's how the world works.

Also I reviewed Be's chat client called [Interrupt](https://github.com/bebebebebe/Interrupt). It's a neat little program that allows collaborative live-typing on a ticker. I like the very minimal design which already allow two (or more!) parties to communicate over the network.

In the evening another CTF started. I were looking forward to it the whole week. It was a very hard CTF though. We could not solve any of the challenges, and of the easier ones, that we tried, I'm not really understanding the solutions. I wonder how much I need to learn to solve these kind of things. It should be possible, but it certainly takes some amount of studying.
