---
title: "momentum, over the whelm, libre the planet [day 31]"
layout: post
date: 2017-03-27 19:19:09 -0400
tags: [rc]
categories: daily-journal
---

After barely sleeping, I was very excited to attend a second first day at RC. The Spring 2 batch was welcomed today, so there's a lot of new faces that I heard names to today. I'll not worry too much about the names, I will forget some of them no matter what. And those that I don't forget, I'll have learned.

What matters to me more is the question with whom I might be able to have good pairing sessions. I think that depends on personal sympathy, on the motivation for the projection and the amount of sleep that I got the night before. So obviously it's hard to impossible to answer that question of "healthy pairing" theoretically instead of trying it out, but it's still interesting to think about it.

I am enjoying the fact that life at RC gains new momentum by this new batch and I'll try to "surf the wave", and I hope the six weeks experience in executing self-directedness helps me to surf it a bit longer and more steady. And after that I have to brush up my surfing vocabulary, to allow me to put the metaphors in my head to paper in a better way. :)

The "RC tools and processes" panel was fun, we mostly talked about how the Zulip chat can be very overwhelming. There's lots of different strategies and I hope we did not scare them new batchlings too much when talking about all of them. I'm not sure if the fact, that there's many different strategies to deal with a problem you most likely haven't even come across yet, is not overwhelming by itself.  Or put differently: Is it necessary to enumerate all possible solutions, because we know that everybody is different?

I think the panel was going ok and we did not "problematize to the extreme" as described above. I think we rather raised awareness on "what can go wrong", such that it's easier to spot that flaw. Give things a name. Or, if you don't have a name, at least mention them in some way. And then it's possible to attempt to fix the flaw. Ask for help.

At presentations demo I talked, mostly improvised. I tried to open a platform of discussion for five insights I took home from the LibrePlanet weekend. I'm not super happy with my presentation performance, but I think it's an impossible endeavour to explain the ideologies, values *and* some of their problems and solutions of "Free Software", "Bitcoin", "CS Education", "Digital Rights" and "Webframework Architecture" in a five minute session. I had to try.
